## About
Tangent Node is a server software implementation of Tangent protocol that is required to maintain trustless peer-to-peer network which is used to process, store and distribute transactions in form of blockchain. Tangent's utility is contained in asset bridging ability which allows one to deposit/withdraw (lock/unlock) cryptocurrency into Tangent's network. This improves speed and efficiency of multiple cryptocurrency transactions.

Tangent's protocol is optimized for moderately fast (up to 400 tps) and market based transaction fees to reduce costs of node software operation. Every transaction uses cryptocurrency or token of another blockchain, Tangent itself does not have a concept of native cryptocurrency, it's simply a trustless bridge. Interoperability with another blockchains is limited to only basic needs (blockchain scans, cryptographic operations, transaction builders, transaction broadcasts) as Tangent supports various transaction types and smart contracts, additional bridging complexity and interopability is not required.

Tangent Node will download and validate network data from any nodes found received by seeder node and with time will form the list of closest neighbouring nodes, it may also publish new network data including transactions and blocks if requested. Each node may be used as an asset bridge which requires it to contribute work to the network beforehand and then lock native cryptocurrency that to cover incoming cryptocurrency from different. To lock cryptocurrency node will be given a public key of a random node that has enough contribution to the network, public key is created specially for this operation which must combined with it's own newly created public key to receive a locking address. When node needs to unlock their assets from locking address, if there are no custodial obligations it will be given an asymmetrically encrypted private key that was generated by another node earlier. This way node will be able to reconstruct original private key using it's own private key to withdraw (unlock) cryptocurrency to desired address.

User of Tangent node may deposit native cryptocurrency using bridging node of their economical liking as each node may choose their relative and absolute fees for deposits and withdrawals and may be limited in custodial abilities one-to-one to their locked assets. User may request bridging node to create a deposit address for their wallet of another blockchain and then they may send assets to that address. Once user needs to withdraw assets to their wallet they may select any other node of their liking or even original node that processed the deposit, then simply sending withdrawal transaction will eventually send the assets to their selected address.

Tangent's procotol consensus is maintained through combination of approaches. It is a Proof of Work consensus, to finalize a transaction node must provide a solution to a verifiable delay function of Wesolowki which requires sequential operations to be computed unlike classic algorithms which can be computed using multithreading. Target block time is 10 seconds, block must contain at least one transaction which may stop network from generating new blocks if none requested. Each block can be created only by randomly selected committee of up to 24 validators, moreover each validator will be given a priority ranking inside their epoch that will not allow blocks with lower priority to replace existing valid candidate block of higher priority. Epoch cannot be skipped which may impact availablity in favor of security. Each accepted block will emit compute units (gas) for winning validator (usable for paying fees, increasing custodial rating and committee inclusion chances) and apply penalty for each validator that had higher priority but did not commit their work. In case of network halt caused by unavailability of the entire commitee, any node may create a block that meets network recovery difficulty which must be 36 times higher than current difficulty, that way network recovery time is at least 5 minutes, recovery block has lowest priority and can be replaced by block that was created by any node that is selected to be in a commitee for that proposal slot.

## Dependencies
* [Vitex (submodule)](https://github.com/romanpunia/vitex)

## License
Tangent is licensed under the MIT license